---
title:  "La Raza!"
date: 2015-06-12
category: Culture
---
I’ve spent the major part of my life in the city of Los Angeles, California; but my father being the man he is, decided to expose me to my cultural roots at an early age. For as long as I can remember, I have been traveling back and forth between Aguascalientes, Mexico (father’s birth place) and Durango, Mexico (mother's birth place). These strikingly unique places have molded me into the man I am today, a city man full of Mexican culture and life.

Religion


Growing up in a Mexican family almost makes it a given that you will grow up around the Catholic beliefs. However, for me, religion didn’t ever really stick. This is almost unheard of in Mexico, considering that Catholicism is their primary and most dominant practiced religion. You can see people casually walking about with many religious symbols (usually Jesus Christ and the Virgin Marie), and right way “se persinan” (make a sign of the cross) as a way to bless themselves and pay respect. Still, being here and experiencing how much devotion and time goes into their faith, I’ve come to appreciate what it represents to the Mexican people. Their devotionto  Jesus Christ, their creator, that all-ruling being. Yet, the Virgen Maria is something much more meaningful; it represents a mother and her unbinding love. Interestingly, with the passing of time and constant violence, some parts of Mexico have come to respect, or rather worship, the Saint of Death and Saint Jesus Valverde. This is a direct result of all the infamous crimes and people continuously joining the cartels because they can’t fix their corrupt government.

Social Norms


Social classes exist everywhere in the world, but particularly here in Mexico, they are much more apparent (obvious?). Just as with anywhere, there are three classes: the elite, the middle class, and the poor. In Mexico however, the middle class is almost non-existent, which leaves a huge gap between the elite and the poor. Most kids grow up respecting or avoiding a family simply on the reputation of their last name, or what that family’s last name carries, which constantly gives these families some sort of entitlement. If you do end up talking to or having a friendly relationship with these “last names”,  your social status improves no matter your upbringing. That’s how things work around here; either your last name carries weight, your family has money, or you know the right people. As for me, I don’t fit within this social structure simply because I won’t be confined to them, as that is how I was raised. I was taught that you earn your reputation, respect, loyalty, and honor on a daily basis. If someone tries to wrong you, you deal with the issue at hand in the most gentleman-like manner possible; so personally, name and money don’t mean anything. What’s more important is the way you carry yourself, the way you treat the less fortunate, that you show some kind of humanity. 

Information Highway


The introduction of information to any culture will definitely have a lasting effect, and here in the parts of Mexico I’ve visited this holds very true. Growing up, I remember how computers were practically unheard of, and now they are almost everywhere and connected to the World Wide Web. Thanks to this, I have seen rampant change over the years. I especially see changes in the way men and women interact. Before, these romantic matters were dealt with in a more conservative style. If you met a girl you were interested in, it was mandatory to go to her house, and hang out only around the house (and that was only if you were lucky enough to get permission from her father.) Now that’s practically gone; you now see men and women out and about like you would in a big city in the States. Social trends from clothing, music, and daily diet have changed for the better, (most of it however still benefiting the elite). But yet no matter how religion, social norms, or information changes or interacts with us (Mexicans) in our daily life, the Mexican people are still some of the hardest working, resilient, family oriented warriors (by Aztec and Mayan Blood) I’ve seen and met. It definitely makes me feel proud of where my ancestors come from, and I as I keep traveling back and forth, I hope to keep learning and immersing myself to a part of me I carry with pride. With that being said, learn more about your roots y “Que Viva La Raza”!